[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I'm Robert Grant.
And this is "The Code X."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In our previous episodes,
we've seen already how Leonardo
da Vinci has encrypted
detailed mathematical constants
and other information into his
various works after the time he
spent in Egypt,
"The Vitruvian Man"
being principal in the first
encryption that I was able
to decrypt.
Besides Leonardo
da Vinci, however,
were there other people
during the Renaissance who
possessed similar knowledge?
Because surely it
couldn't only be
that Leonardo had access
to such profound insights
and information.
The others that we noted
that we have found thus far--
and there are probably many that
we don't yet know or realize--
actually were so concerned
that they might be found out
that they felt the need to
encrypt all of their efforts
not only in the
form of encryption
that we found already, both
mathematical and artistic
related, but even
under a pen name.
Might that pen name have
been William Shakespeare?
William Shakespeare
is quite possibly
one of the most famous
people and prominent figures
in English literature.
Today, just the volume
of words that he
himself innovated and brought
to the world is astounding.
One could write an
entire dictionary out
of just the words he introduced
to the English language alone.
And yet, he even
introduced concepts
that were prevalent
in other languages
in the course of
his plays, sonnets,
and other literary works.
William Shakespeare,
today, stands
as a paragon of
English literature
that is still studied and
re-studied over and over again
by students the world over.
One of the people
that has done one
of the most extensive
research projects
around William Shakespeare
is my friend and colleague,
Alan Green.
Alan is the quintessential
cryptographer and cryptologist
that has cracked the
Shakespeare code, realizing
that William Shakespeare
himself is actually
a collective of several
different Rosicrucian
and Renaissance period
polymaths who not only wrote
the plays of
William Shakespeare,
but also encrypted the
sonnets, 154 of which
include deep and profound
messages of significance
relevant to our day today.
And, in addition, they even
wrote the King James version
of the Bible.
Alan is going to be
explaining to us what
he has found as
he has researched
all of the works of William
Shakespeare and the simplicity,
as a starting point, of
the cover of "The Sonnets."
These were poems written
in such beautiful prose.
And they mirror iambic
pentameter mathematical
principles, yet again
another form of experiencing
geometric beauty.
Alan Green has decrypted
the cover of "The Sonnets."
And we're excited to
share it with you today.
>> This is the
original title page
of Shakespeare's "Sonnets,"
as first published in 1609.
It looks fairly
normal for the period
except for the two
horizontal lines
that usually had critical
information between them.
The fact that they are
empty is a clue that's
been ignored for 400 years.
And we're going to look deeper.
We're going to literally connect
the dots, the punctuation.
The TT Stands for Thomas
Thorpe, the publisher.
Look at the italic
slope of that second T.
It's actually guiding us
to connect this dot at 1609
to this dot at imprinted, using
the slope in T as a guide.
Is there any other dot that's
drawing attention to itself?
Well, yeah.
The G dot is only about 10 times
the size it's supposed to be.
And so, let's connect it to
the D dot and to the 1609 dot.
And we find we have a
perfect right angle triangle.
Interesting.
Now, just as that
second T was a guide,
the dot after that
second T is a guide.
If we look where the 1609
dot is pointing through
there and on up, it lands at
the right end of this seemingly
random top horizontal line.
But, obviously, it's not random.
I'm going to take that point
and connect it to the G,
and it to the D, and again we
have another second right angle
triangle.
Kind of makes you wonder
about the second line
here and, yes, same situation.
The only dot left is
the Aspley dot here.
And if we do the
same thing here,
we find we've got four
perfect right angle triangles.
In fact, that last
one is more than
an ordinary rectangle triangle.
It's a perfect three,
four, five triangle.
Well, remember Pythagorean
Theory from high school?
3 squared plus 4 squared
equals 4 squared, yes?
So, what is this really?
It's actually hiding this.
A perfect circle passes
through all the six points.
This is a visual
representation of something
called Thales Theorem, named
after the Greek philosopher who
scholars believe was
Pythagoras's mentor.
But Thales is best known
as the first person
to measure the height of
the Great Pyramid of Giza,
and he did it using the geometry
of right angle triangles.
Now, let's complete
the image by connecting
the two remaining intersections
between the circle
and the horizontal
lines here and here.
Now, obviously, no one works
at this level of precision just
to hide some triangles.
There's got to be
more going on here.
We must measure them,
"By G," "to be," E, NE.
During the Renaissance,
the letter G
was often used on
maps and emblems
to indicate the
globe or the Earth.
And, anciently, the
Pythagoreans used the letter G
to mean geometry itself.
They're measuring the Earth.
So looking again at these
TT dots connected to the G,
we have, in the easterly
direction, E for east.
And it's a zero
horizontal baseline.
Now, if it's really about
measuring the Earth, perhaps
all these lines that
are radiating out
from this enormous G dot
drawing attention to itself that
are all radiating out
from it, maybe they
are intended to be thought
of as lines of latitude.
If we measure this one,
it's 20 degrees exactly.
And this one below the
horizontal baseline
is 20 degrees exactly.
But we have another
baseline here, don't we?
That we discovered the
tangent to the circle.
If we use that as a baseline,
there's another angle here,
20 degrees.
They're all
perfectly 20 degrees.
Makes you wonder about these
two, the remaining ones that
are on the circumference,
the only ones that
have not been measured.
Because they're not perfect.
And so we have to measure
them by trigonometry.
I will spare you the math again.
But, essentially, we can surmise
that because this is obviously
oriented to the north of its
baseline, and this to the east,
perhaps they are latitude
north, longitude east, "NE."
Well, the numbers are
here and here worked out.
Is it true that they
are coordinates?
Let that sink in.
It's stunning,
exquisite, all done
by placement of the
punctuation and two lines.
>> Alan's research is showing us
that with the simplicity of two
straight lines and six dots, one
of which was oversized by about
10 times versus the others,
the writers of "The Sonnets"
encrypted something very
profound in a mathematical
relationship called
Thales Theorem.
And, in addition,
as we'll soon see,
almost all the major
mathematical constants
can be derived from the
extrapolation of the Thales
Theorem.
But where is this going?
Why would these Rosicrucian,
hermetic wisdom seekers
be encrypting the
cover of "The Sonnets"?
First and foremost, probably
to protect their own lives
and identity.
Many of these people were
involved in higher society
in England at the time.
Their queen, Queen Elizabeth,
was known as the Virgin Queen,
very much attempting to protect
her status as a virgin, which
was very important politically
vis-a-vis the Pope in Rome.
And let's not forget that
her father, King Henry VIII,
was definitely and
athmatically seen
in Rome because of
his breakaway church
in the Church of England.
This was a highly charged time.
The identities and
actions of those
that use the pen name of William
Shakespeare were very important
and must be protected.
The individuals that were among
those people that collectively
were considered
William Shakespeare
were none other than the
Queen's mathematician
and astrologer,
John Dee, as well as
her lover, Edward de Vere,
including as well Sir Francis
Bacon, and beyond
that, others inclusive
of Christopher Marlowe.
These people wrote together
the works of "The Sonnets"
and the plays.
But what and why
have they encrypted?
Well, Alan, through his
17 years of research,
has been able to uncover
these encryptions for us today
and a great mystery pointing
to one irrevocable place,
the Rostau, or Giza Plateau.
>> Well, here are the two
proportions that produced the e
minus 1 ratio followed by
another sequence of proportions
in purple.
You don't have to do the math.
Just hold your breath because
the ratios of these proportions
are to an incredible 2/5,000 of
a foot and 4/5,000 of a meter,
staggering.
So the three most
prominent units of measure
are found intimately
connected to each other
in the basic proportions of the
pyramid and in the same place
where we found the
12 math constants.
If we reduce the
green foot to Unity,
the red measures 1.718 feet.
This is actually the
structure of Euler's number
e, the ratio 1 to 1.718.
And so the cubit is e minus 1.
This is the relationship
between foot and cubit.
Jacob Bernoulli, in 1683,
working on compound interest,
discovered this
formula, the same one
that banks use today to
calculate the interest we
owe on our credit cards.
One is the amount
that we borrow.
And if we're compounding at
100% interest continuously,
the maximum possible owed
on a loan of $1.00 converges
to 1.718, and the
total is e, 2.718.
And that's the total
owed to the bank.
This rate of growth
is inherently
built in to creation.
It's the natural
base of logarithms.
The incredible thing
is this implies
the foot is synonymous with the
principle, the original Unity,
what we start with.
And the cubit, the
interest or growth,
now doesn't only
apply to banking.
It shows up in calculus,
probability theory.
It's used to predict population
growth or the rate of spread
of an epidemic.
Its inverse is the rate
of radioactive decay.
It's everywhere.
Newton found the
same thing in 1669
with this infinite
series of what's
called reciprocal factorials.
They're on the bottom with
the exclamation points.
They simply mean 1, 2 times 1,
3 times 2 times 1, et cetera,
to infinity.
And this part of the
series converges to 1.718.
And there's the one,
Unity, preceding it exactly
as in the Bernoulli's formula.
Haven't we always been
told that the foot was
based on the average
size of a human foot
and the cubit on the distance
from the point of the index
finger to the elbow?
And doesn't such
an arbitrary choice
sound bizarrely
unscientific, especially now
that we see beyond
doubt they're both
based on this mathematically
significant relationship,
the universal constant of e?
So what about the meter?
By reducing it by the same
ratio to match the Unity foot,
we discover this meter is
the equivalent of 3.281 feet.
Now, is there any
mathematical connection
between it and the cubit?
Well, the French derived it
from one 10 millionth part
of the meridian of the
polar circumference.
At least that's based on
the science of geodesy,
measuring the actual
size of the Earth
by the inherent
geometry of circles.
Perhaps we should look at other
reliable, consistent attributes
of our planet, like the 12
hours of day and the 12 hours
of night that mark
the Earth's rotation.
Or the 12-month seasons
of its yearly revolution
of the sun, which gives rise
to the 12-month zodiac signs
of the constellations.
Which themselves embody a
retrograde pattern far more
mysterious to track, but which
the ancient Vedic scriptures
declare is based on a series
of seasons, if you will,
that take our planet through
an inconceivably long cycle
in multiple increments of 1,200
years each for the Iron Age,
two times 1,200
each for the Bronze,
three times 1,200 each
for the Silver Age,
four times 1,200 each
for the Golden Age,
and which altogether
constitutes Plato's Great Year,
a cycle of 12,000
years ascending
to 12,000 years descending.
The question is, do we see a
reflection of such patterns
anywhere but here in the
meter cubit relationship?
Well, if we take a
circle of radius 1 meter,
its circumference is 12 cubits.
So one cubit is exactly
this portion of the arc,
1/6 of a slice of
pie, or pi over 6,
just the way we measure
angles in radians.
Pi over 6 is 0.5236.
If we take the cubit
and feet and divide
by the meter in feet,
it's precisely the same.
Beautiful, yes?
Let's take the whole thing now.
Make foot cubit meter
the radius of our circle.
The circumference
now is 12 pi feet.
That's an astounding
99.9993% accuracy.
Or look at just cubic
meter as the radius.
Let's stretch this here.
That's now 10 pi
feet circumference.
In fact, when we
make the cubit be
the perfect e minus 1 meter,
the perfect pi over 6,
which works out to this
little formula here,
and the foot is perfect Unity,
the inherent mathematical
perfection is in there
between foot and cubit e,
between cubit and meter pi.
And it produces this--
cubit meter is exactly 5 feet,
all but for a minuscule 0.00004
feet.
That's to an incredible
accuracy of 2/50,000 of a foot.
To put that into
perspective, it's
roughly the size of a
human red blood cell.
And, of course, that means that
all three combined is 6 feet.
Now, the numbers 5 and
6 are found everywhere
in sacred geometry,
5 representing
the microcosm of the
normal everyday life
we experience on
Earth, 6 representing
the macrocosm, the
state of being we
associate with divine wisdom
or our reconnection with God.
And how does man
attain this state?
Simply by recognizing
the presence
of the one, the original
Unity, out of which
the five of earthly
existence has grown.
So we see there's a stunning
spiritual metaphor playing out
here in this trinity of the
world's predominant measuring
systems.
Foot, cubic, meter
simultaneously and cumulatively
representing three
different stages of growth.
>> One of the things that we
learned very quickly as we
analyze the Great Pyramid is
the Great Pyramid itself seems
to house within its proportional
dimensions new hidden
knowledge.
Now, if you lived several
thousands of years ago
and you wanted to
encrypt something
for future generations,
how could you encrypt it
in a way that would be
impervious to physical and
outside calamity, earthquakes?
How could you ensure that
the papers and papyri
that you wrote on wouldn't
one day be burned and lost
to history?
Possibly the only
way to do it would
be to build a standing structure
of mathematical proportions
that were so obvious
to the seeker
that he or she could
determine on their own
the messages held within in a
message of standing and living
stone.
What we've found, and what
Alan's research has revealed,
is that the Great
Pyramid actually
houses and embeds within it
all the mathematical constants.
In fact, we have
taken this analysis
to include over 80 of the
mathematical and physical
constants that virtually
determine the nature
of our universe around us.
And, additionally, even the
units of measure themselves
that we use through
the ages, namely
the royal Egyptian cubit,
which is 1.718 feet, the meter,
as well as the foot, all
embedded into the construction
of the Great Pyramid.
But what does this tell us?
The ancient builders
of the Giza Plateau
seemed to very clearly have
known the foot, the cubit,
and the meter, and have
embedded in the construction
of the Great Pyramid
advanced knowledge
possibly exceeding
our own knowledge
today of fundamental
mathematical constants.
What the Renaissance polymaths
had uncovered and understood
is that the Great
Pyramid is simply
a reflection of our own
understanding and ascending
awareness and greater
consciousness.
John Dee, the Queen's astrologer
in Elizabethan England,
was a genius mathematician
and polymath.
He was also an
incredible cryptographer
who had done amazing things.
Some credit him even
with assisting the Queen
to defeat the Spanish Armada,
more than 500 ships that
came to attack and take
control and conquer England
at its moment of weakness.
Somehow, after the Queen
had met with John Dee,
an incredible storm fell
upon the Spanish Armada,
which left it broken
and destroyed,
paving the way for England
to become a powerhouse nation
vis-a-vis the other countries
across the European theater
at the time.
John Dee was also a hermeticist.
As a hermeticist, he
understood the relationship
of Thoth, Hermes Tresmegistus.
In fact, in a treatise
that he wrote,
called "The Monas
Hieroglyphica,"
he articulated the
details of what
it meant to experience higher
knowledge of Hermeticism.
In that hermetic treatise,
he describes all the details
of this higher dimensional form
of understanding and wisdom.
The "Monas Hieroglyphica"
stands for us today
as an end sign and an
example of what each of us
can attain to achieve a
higher level of wisdom.
In our next
episodes, we're going
to be showing you the
relationship of how
we can take this higher
knowledge of hermetic wisdom
and apply it to our daily lives.
We're also going to find
deeper, more hidden encryptions
in others of Leonardo
da Vinci's works
and even examine other
polymaths through time
who encrypted the selfsame
messages to us for our benefit
and use today.
[MUSIC PLAYING]